# U.S. Wind Energy Market Analysis for WOW! Private Equity
# Project Summary
## Introduction:
The goal of this project was to provide Chicago-based private equity firm, ‘WOW!’ with an assessment of the U.S. wind turbine industry. Our team decided to expand the analysis to include a summary of the wind energy market as a whole, the state of renewable energy globally and in the United States, and to evaluate U.S. wind project operators in addition to the request to assess the turbine market. 

## Background:
The energy market is entrenched with powerful incumbents, but as the world tries to address concerns of climate change political, entrepreneurial, and technical advancements have driven the emergence of a growing renewable energy sector. Deciding which areas are ripe for growth is a challenging question with wide scope. Assessing any individual participant’s viability as an investment target within the space requires an understanding of factors as broad as the global energy market and as minute as average wind speed in meters per second in Fisher, Texas. Our team was tasked with an analysis that caught investors up to speed quickly within a tight turn-around. We used a combination of external research and our own statistical analysis of what we deemed to be the most important factors to give the investment committee an educated platform from which to ask more questions or proceed in pursuit of opportunities specific to the wind energy market in the United States. 

## Technical Details:
PostgreSQL and Python were used to perform exploratory data analysis, create preliminary visualizations, and modify data sets before importing to Tableau for further analysis and visualization. Our team relied heavily on data from the U.S. Wind Turbine Database. Specifically, their data from 2022. We also utilized 2022 data sourced from the EIA on energy operators in the U.S. Other sources and research are cited within the presentation memo accessible in this repository.

## Implementation:
This was a team effort with significant contributions from each individual analyst. Sadly, I don’t feel comfortable sharing the code as I served mostly as a scrum master on this project and do not feel it’s my code to share. The steps taken by each individual analyst (minus their code) are detailed in the text file in this repository named `wind_technical_summary`. 

## Results:
Having assessed the wind energy market as a whole and focused specifically on turbine manufacturers and plant operators with a presence in the U.S., our recommendation was to further explore investing at the plant operator, asset owner level as an equity partner. Our research indicated that sector of the industry enjoys greater profit margins. Although the recent dip in turbine manufacturers’ profit margin could spell opportunity, how the WOW! investment committee views that depends on their appetite for risk. Exploring equity partnership at the operator and/or asset owner level would give WOW! more potential targets than the turbine manufacturing industry. If WOW! is willing to make competitive financing offers in an inflationary environment they could be a valued equity partner removing a barrier to growth. 

## Conclusion:
The investment committee at WOW! should be able to conduct further investigation into the wind turbine manufacturing or wind project operator verticals of the energy business with greater direction of which players would be most attractive to research further and contact in pursuit of partnership. They should have a better understanding of the dynamics of the wind energy market and the risks faced by both project operators and turbine manufacturers. Our recommendation was to prioritize further exploration of investment opportunities with project operators and/or asset owners. Whatever their investment strategy, they should be informed and empowered to make better data-driven decisions with our analysis in hand.
